CSCI 1951L: Blockchains and Cryptocurrencies Course Information and Syllabus
Semester II, 2024
  Lectures Room
Lecture Notes
TTh 2:30pm-3:50pm
Kassar House FOX
    http://cs.brown.edu/courses/cs1951l/
A recording of each lecture will be available soon after it is given.
 
Textbook
There is no textbook for this class. However, there will be lecture notes distributed by Professor Herlihy and available on the website. These lecture notes are from an early draft of a textbook that Professor Herlihy is working on with collaborators. These lecture notes may serve as an ad-hoc textbook. These notes should at no point be distributed to those outside the class under any circumstances.
All course materials can be found on the course website. Slides for the lectures are released the day before, and recordings of the lectures are posted the following class. Assignments are also posted on the site when they are released. EdStem, our online QA forum, will also be updated regularly with assignment clarifications and pinned posts relating to frequently asked questions.
Prerequisite
Either CSCI 300, 320, or 330. In particular, you should be a competent programmer
Instructor 
Maurice Herlihy (mph@cs.brown.edu) 
Office
CIT 341
Professor’s Office Hours
By appointment
Head TAs
Brian Sutioso, Abhyudaya Sharma
UTAs 
Sam Devorsetz
TA Office Hours
See course site.
        
Time Requirements

The course will require at least 180 hours over the course of the semester
 
In addition to three hours per week in class, you will spend 3-10 hours per week on assignments. Assignment times will vary.
(including class time).
Goals
The primary goal is for you to understand how blockchain technology works, and how to separate myth and hype from the reality. Topics covered include consensus and distributed computing, example cryptocurrencies, programming smart contracts, privacy and secrecy, transfer networks, atomic swaps and
 
Due Dates
All assignments must be handed in by 11:59 pm on their due dates.
transactions, non-currency applications of blockchains, and legal and social implications.